# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis
#Challenge 7 analysis
The first problem we want to solve is to determine the total number of employees who will be retiring per title. With that data, we can prepare for the hiring process and maybe offer more trainings to those specific departments. The second problem is to identify those employees who are eligible for the mentoring program. So that the retire ready employees can change part time before they will be fully retired, and the newly-hired can get more trainings from them.
In order to get the number of employees who will be retiring per title, we need to inner join the employees.csv (emp_no, first and last name) with salaries.csv(salary), then inner join titles.csv(title and from_date). Their mutual info are emp_no. We need to set the birthdate and hiring date limit for the ready_retire employees. In addition, to_date in the title.csv is critical in determining the current positions of the employees. Since some employees change positions during employment, only the current positions can reflect the correct number of current employees. After creating the retiring list, we need to count the number of positions for each title by using group by ‘title’. For the mentoring eligibility, we need to inner join employees.csv(emp_no, first_name, Last_name) with titles.csv(title, from_date, to_date). We need to limit those with birthday in 1965 and change the to_date to 9999-01-01 for reflecting the current employees.
The results show that there are 33118 employees retiring. Among those retiring positions, Senior Engineer has the most as 13651 positions, Senior Staff is the second as 12872 positions, Engineer has 2711 positions, Staff has 2022 positions, Technique Leader has 1609 positions, Assistant Engineer has 251 positions and Manager has 2 positions. One of the limitations is that the result did not show the retiring positions per department. Another limitation is that the hiring date was just for current position. If the company wants to limit the hiring date to specific range, the data cannot show both the specific hiring date and current working employees. I suggest the data join the departments.csv for getting the department retiring info. For the mentoring eligibility results, it shows that there are 1549 eligible mentors based on the specific birth date. One of the limitations is that the result did not show the mentors per department. We can combine the department.csv for getting the mentor info per department. 
